New York Stock Exchange Auction Market Bids and Offers Rules (2025)

Rule 63 Bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on a "when issued" basis shall be made only "when issued," i.e., for delivery when issued as determined by the Exchange. Bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on a "when distributed" basis shall be made only "when distributed," i.e., for delivery when distributed as determined by the Exchange. When dealings in a stock on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis are suspended, and dealings of the same stock are continued on a "regular way" basis, all orders for the purchase or sale of the stock on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis will expire at the close of business on the day before such dealings on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis are suspended, unless otherwise directed by the Exchange.

Rule 64 Bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on an "issued" basis, shall be made as "regular way." In addition, the Exchange may allow for any such additional settlement instructions and periods as the Exchange may from time to time determine.

Rule 66 Bids and offers in securities of the United States Government admitted to dealings on an "issued" basis shall be made only as the "regular way." In addition, the Exchange may allow for any such additional settlement periods as the Exchange may from time to time determine.

Rule 67_1 If the price of a Pilot Security drops below $1.00 during regular trading on any given business day, such Pilot Security will continue to trade in accordance with such Rules as if the price of the Pilot Security had not dropped below $1.00. However, if the Closing Price of a Pilot Security on any given business day is below $1.00, such Pilot Security will be moved out of its respective Pilot Test Group into the Control Group, and may then be quoted and traded at any price increment that is currently permitted by Exchange rules for the remainder of the Pilot Period.

Rule 67_2 A member organization that is a Market Maker shall collect and transmit to their Designated Examining Authority (“DEA”) data, with respect to activity conducted on any Trading Center in Pre-Pilot Data Collection Securities and Pilot Securities in furtherance of its status as a Market Maker, including a Trading Center that executes trades otherwise than on a national securities exchange, for transactions that have settled or reached settlement date. Market Makers shall transmit such data in a format required by their DEA by 12:00 p.m. EST on T+4

Rule 67_3 No member organization may display, rank, or accept from any person any displayable or non-displayable bids or offers, orders, or indications of interest in increments other than $0.05. However, orders priced to trade at the midpoint of the national best bid and national best offer (“NBBO”) or best protected bid and best protected offer (“PBBO”) and orders entered in the Exchange’s Retail Liquidity Program as Retail Price Improvement Orders may be ranked and accepted in increments of less than $0.05.

Rule 67_4 An incoming automatically executing order to sell (buy) will trade with displayable bids (offers) and route to protected bids (offers) before trading with an unexecuted Market Order held undisplayed at the same price. After trading or routing, or both, any remaining balance of an incoming order will satisfy any unexecuted Market Orders in time priority before trading with non-displayable interest on parity.

Rule 70 A member organization approved to operate booth premises pursuant to this rule is prohibited from effecting any transaction from its approved booth premises for its own account, the account of an associated person or an account with respect to which it or an associated person thereof exercises investment discretion on the Exchange, except that such member organization may effect such transactions in the common, preferred, and debt securities of an operating company that is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or OTC Markets ("OTC Security") if such security is not related to a security listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American LLC ("NYSE American"). For purposes of Rule 70.40, an OTC Security is related to a security listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American if:
(a) the OTC Security is issued by an issuer of a security that is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American or that underlies an NYSE American option, or an affiliate of such issuer;
(b)the OTC Security is subject to a corporate action that relates to the issuer of a security that is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American or that underlies an NYSE American option, or an affiliate of such issuer;
(c)the OTC Security is issued by an issuer of a security that is a component of a narrow-based security index (as defined in Section 3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that is linked to a security that listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American or that underlies an NYSE American option; or
(d)the OTC Security is issued by a foreign issuer or is a depositary receipt (or the equivalent thereof) for such a security, and a security issued by such foreign issuer or a depositary receipt (or the equivalent thereof) for such a security is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE American or underlies an NYSE American option.

Rule 71 All verbal bids made and accepted, and all verbal offers made and accepted, in accordance with Exchange Rules shall be binding. Any verbal bid that is made at the same or higher price of the prevailing offer shall result in a transaction at the offer price in an amount equal to the lesser of the bid or offer. The same principle shall apply when a verbal offer is made at the same or lower price as the bid.

Rule 72 When a member has an order to buy and an order to sell an equivalent amount of the same security, and both orders are "block" orders and are not for the account of such member or member organization, an account of an associated person, or an account with respect to which the member, member organization or associated person thereof exercises investment discretion, the member may "cross" those orders at a price at or within the Exchange best bid or offer. The member's bid or offer shall be entitled to priority at such cross price, irrespective of pre-existing displayed bids or offers on the Exchange at that price. The member shall follow the crossing procedures of Rule 76, and another member may trade with either the bid or offer side of the cross transaction only to provide a price which is better than the cross price as to all or part of such bid or offer. A member who is providing a better price to one side of the cross transaction must trade with all other displayed market interest on the Exchange at that price before trading with any part of the cross transaction. Following a transaction at the improved price, the member with the agency cross transaction shall follow the crossing procedures of Rule 76 and complete the balance of the cross. No member may break up the proposed cross transaction, in whole or in part, at the cross price. No DMM may effect a proprietary transaction to provide price improvement to one side or the other of a cross transaction effected pursuant to this paragraph. A transaction effected at the cross price in reliance on this paragraph shall be printed as "stopped stock".

Rule 74 A claim by a member who states that he had on the Floor a prior or better bid or offer shall not be sustained if the bid or offer was not made with the publicity and frequency necessary to make the existence of such bid or offer generally known at the time of the transaction.

Rule 75 Disputes arising on bids or offers, if not settled by agreement between the members interested, shall be settled by a Trading Official. In rendering a decision as to disputes regarding the amount traded, the Trading Official shall give primary weight to statements by any member who was not a party to the transaction and shall also take into account the size of orders held by parties to the disputed transaction, and such other facts as he deems relevant. Members may also proceed to resolve a dispute through long-standing arbitration procedures established under the Exchange's Rules.

Rule 76 When a member has an order to buy and an order to sell the same security, he or she shall offer such security at a price which is higher than his or her bid by the minimum variation permitted in such security before making a transaction with himself or herself. All such bids and offers shall be clearly announced to the trading Crowd before the member may proceed with the proposed "cross" transaction.

Rule 77 No member shall offer publicly on the Floor:
(1) To buy or sell securities "on stop" above or below the market;
(2) to buy or sell securities "at the close";
(3) to buy or sell dividends;
(4) to bet upon the course of the market; or
(5) to buy or sell privileges to receive or deliver securities.

Rule 78 An offer to sell coupled with an offer to buy back at the same or at an advanced price, or the reverse, is a prearranged trade and is prohibited. This rule applies both to transactions in the unit of trading and in lesser and greater amounts.