New York Stock Exchange Auction Market Bids and Offers Rules (2015)

Rule 63 Bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on a "when issued" basis shall be made only "when issued," i.e., for delivery when issued as determined by the Exchange. Bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on a "when distributed" basis shall be made only "when distributed," i.e., for delivery when distributed as determined by the Exchange. When dealings in a stock on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis are suspended, and dealings of the same stock are continued on a "regular way" basis, all orders for the purchase or sale of the stock on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis will expire at the close of business on the day before such dealings on a "when issued" or "when distributed" basis are suspended, unless otherwise directed by the Exchange.

Rule 64 (a) (i) Except as provided in (ii) below, bids and offers in securities admitted to dealings on an "issued" basis, shall be made as "regular way," i.e., for delivery on the third business day following the day of the contract. In addition, the Exchange may allow for any such additional settlement instructions and periods as the Exchange may from time to time determine. (See Rule 14 (Non-Regular Way Settlement Instructions for Orders) for additional permissible settlement instructions.)
(ii) On the second and third business days preceding the final day for subscription, bids and offers in rights to subscribe shall be made only "next day," i.e., for delivery on the next business day following the day of the contract; and shall be made only for "cash" on the day preceding the final day for subscription.
(b) All trades effected for other than "regular way" settlement that are more than 0.10 point away from the "regular way" bid or offer must be approved by a Floor Official, except during the last calendar week of the year at which time Floor Official approval is required only for sales more than 0.25 point away from the "regular way" bid or offer. In considering whether or not to grant such approval, the Floor Official should take into consideration whether the price of the transaction is reasonable in relation to the "regular way" market.
(c) All "seller's option" trades, for delivery between two and 60 business days, should be reported to the tape only in calendar days. For example, a trade settling in six business days would print as a "seller's 8" unless there is an intervening holiday (in which case it would print as a "seller's 9"). Weekends and holidays are counted and the trade date is not included when calculating the print for "seller's option" trades. The settlement date of a "seller's option" transaction printed as calendar days cannot coincide with the normal three business day "regular way" settlement.

Rule 66 Bids and offers in securities of the United States Government admitted to dealings on an "issued" basis shall be made only as the "regular way," for that security i.e., for delivery on the business day following the day of the trade. In addition, the Exchange may allow for any such additional settlement periods as the Exchange may from time to time determine. 

Rule 67_1 If the price of a Pilot Security drops below $1.00 during regular trading on any given business day, such Pilot Security will continue to trade in accordance with such Rules as if the price of the Pilot Security had not dropped below $1.00. However, if the Closing Price of a Pilot Security on any given business day is below $1.00, such Pilot Security will be moved out of its respective Pilot Test Group into the Control Group, and may then be quoted and traded at any price increment that is currently permitted by Exchange rules for the remainder of the Pilot Period.

Rule 67_2 A member organization that is a Market Maker shall collect and transmit to their Designated Examining Authority (“DEA”) data, with respect to activity conducted on any Trading Center in Pre-Pilot Data Collection Securities and Pilot Securities in furtherance of its status as a Market Maker, including a Trading Center that executes trades otherwise than on a national securities exchange, for transactions that have settled or reached settlement date. Market Makers shall transmit such data in a format required by their DEA by 12:00 p.m. EST on T+4

Rule 67_3 No member organization may display, rank, or accept from any person any displayable or non-displayable bids or offers, orders, or indications of interest in increments other than $0.05. However, orders priced to trade at the midpoint of the national best bid and national best offer (“NBBO”) or best protected bid and best protected offer (“PBBO”) and orders entered in the Exchange’s Retail Liquidity Program as Retail Price Improvement Orders may be ranked and accepted in increments of less than $0.05.

Rule 67_4 An incoming automatically executing order to sell (buy) will trade with displayable bids (offers) and route to protected bids (offers) before trading with an unexecuted Market Order held undisplayed at the same price. After trading or routing, or both, any remaining balance of an incoming order will satisfy any unexecuted Market Orders in time priority before trading with non-displayable interest on parity.

Rule 70 A member organization approved to operate booth premises pursuant to this rule is prohibited from effecting any transaction from its approved booth premises for its own account, the account of an associated person or an account with respect to which it or an associated person thereof exercises investment discretion on the Exchange, except that such member organization may effect such transactions in the common, preferred, and debt securities of an operating company that is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or OTC Markets ("OTC Security") if such security is not related to a security listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT LLC ("NYSE MKT"). For purposes of Rule 70.40, an OTC Security is related to a security listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT if:
(a) the OTC Security is issued by an issuer of a security that is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT or that underlies an NYSE MKT option, or an affiliate of such issuer;
(b)the OTC Security is subject to a corporate action that relates to the issuer of a security that is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT or that underlies an NYSE MKT option, or an affiliate of such issuer;
(c)the OTC Security is issued by an issuer of a security that is a component of a narrow-based security index (as defined in Section 3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that is linked to a security that listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT or that underlies an NYSE MKT option; or
(d)the OTC Security is issued by a foreign issuer or is a depositary receipt (or the equivalent thereof) for such a security, and a security issued by such foreign issuer or a depositary receipt (or the equivalent thereof) for such a security is listed or traded on the Exchange or NYSE MKT or underlies an NYSE MKT option.

Rule 71 All bids made and accepted, and all offers made and accepted, in accordance with Exchange Rules shall be binding. Any bid that is made at the same or higher price of the prevailing offer shall result in a transaction at the offer price in an amount equal to the lesser of the bid or offer. The same principle shall apply when an offer is made at the same or lower price as the bid.

Rule 72 When a member has an order to buy and an order to sell an equivalent amount of the same security, and both orders are "block" orders and are not for the account of such member or member organization, an account of an associated person, or an account with respect to which the member, member organization or associated person thereof exercises investment discretion, the member may "cross" those orders at a price at or within the Exchange best bid or offer. The member's bid or offer shall be entitled to priority at such cross price, irrespective of pre-existing displayed bids or offers on the Exchange at that price. The member shall follow the crossing procedures of Rule 76, and another member may trade with either the bid or offer side of the cross transaction only to provide a price which is better than the cross price as to all or part of such bid or offer. A member who is providing a better price to one side of the cross transaction must trade with all other displayed market interest on the Exchange at that price before trading with any part of the cross transaction. Following a transaction at the improved price, the member with the agency cross transaction shall follow the crossing procedures of Rule 76 and complete the balance of the cross. No member may break up the proposed cross transaction, in whole or in part, at the cross price. No DMM may effect a proprietary transaction to provide price improvement to one side or the other of a cross transaction effected pursuant to this paragraph. A transaction effected at the cross price in reliance on this paragraph shall be printed as "stopped stock".

Rule 72_1 As used in this rule, the term "displayable" shall mean that portion of interest that could be published as, or as part of, the Exchange BBO, including pegging interest. Displayable odd-lot orders will be published as part of the Exchange BBO if, when aggregated with other interest available for execution at that price point, the sum of the odd-lot order and other interest available at that price point would be equal to or greater than a round lot. The term "displayed interest" includes that part of an order that is published as, or as part of, the Exchange BBO, which may include one or more odd-lot orders.

Rule 72_2 When a bid or offer, including pegging interest is established as the only displayable bid or offer made at a particular price and such bid or offer is the only displayable interest when such price is or becomes the Exchange BBO (the "setting interest"), such setting interest shall be entitled to priority for allocation of executions at that price as described in this rule, subject to the provisions below.

Rule 72_3 Odd-lot orders, including aggregated odd-lot orders that are displayable, are not eligible to be setting interest.

Rule 72_4 If at the time displayable interest of a round lot or greater becomes the Exchange BBO, there is other displayable interest of a round lot or greater, including aggregated odd-lot orders that are equal to or greater than a round lot, at the price that becomes the Exchange BBO, no interest is considered to be a setting interest, and, therefore, there is no priority established.

Rule 72_5 If at the time displayable interest of a round lot or greater becomes the Exchange BBO, there is other displayable interest, the sum of which is less than a round lot, at the price that becomes the Exchange BBO, the displayable interest of a round lot or greater will be considered the only displayable bid or offer at that price point and is therefore established as the setting interest entitled to priority for allocation of executions at that price as described in this rule.

Rule 72_6 If executions decrement the setting interest to an odd-lot size, a round lot or PRL order that joins such remaining odd-lot size order is not eligible to be the setting interest. If as a result of cancellation, interest is or becomes the single displayable interest of a round lot or greater at the Exchange BBO, it becomes the setting interest.

Rule 72_7 Only the portion of setting interest that is or has been published in the Exchange BBO shall be entitled to priority allocation of an execution. That portion of setting interest that is designated as reserve interest and therefore not displayed at the Exchange BBO (or not displayable if it becomes the Exchange BBO) is not eligible for priority allocation of an execution irrespective of the price of such reserve interest or the time it is accepted into Exchange systems. However, if, following an execution of part or all of setting interest, such setting interest is replenished from any reserve interest, the replenished volume of such setting interest shall be entitled to priority if the setting interest is still the only interest at the Exchange BBO.

Rule 72_8 If non-pegging interest becomes the Exchange BBO, it shall be considered the setting interest even if pegging interest is pegging to such non-pegging interest, and it shall retain its priority even if subsequently joined at that price by a pegging interest.

Rule 74 A claim by a member who states that he had on the Floor a prior or better bid or offer shall not be sustained if the bid or offer was not made with the publicity and frequency necessary to make the existence of such bid or offer generally known at the time of the transaction.

Rule 75 Disputes arising on bids or offers, if not settled by agreement between the members interested, shall be settled by a Floor Official. In rendering a decision as to disputes regarding the amount traded, the Floor Official shall give primary weight to statements by any member who was not a party to the transaction and shall also take into account the size of orders held by parties to the disputed transaction, and such other facts as he deems relevant. If both parties to a dispute agree, and the dispute involves either a monetary difference of $10,000 or more or a questioned trade, the matter may be referred for resolution to a panel of three Floor Governors, Senior Floor Officials, or Executive Floor Officials, or any combination thereof, whose decision shall be binding on the parties. As an alternative to a panel of three Floor Governors, Senior Floor Officials, or Executive Floor Officials, or any combination thereof, members may also proceed to resolve a dispute through long-standing arbitration procedures established under the Exchange's Rules.

Rule 76 When a member has an order to buy and an order to sell the same security, he or she shall offer such security at a price which is higher than his or her bid by the minimum variation permitted in such security before making a transaction with himself or herself. All such bids and offers shall be clearly announced to the trading Crowd before the member may proceed with the proposed "cross" transaction.

Rule 77 No member shall offer publicly on the Floor:
(1) To buy or sell securities "on stop" above or below the market;
(2) to buy or sell securities "at the close";
(3) to buy or sell dividends;
(4) to bet upon the course of the market; or
(5) to buy or sell privileges to receive or deliver securities.

Rule 78 An offer to sell coupled with an offer to buy back at the same or at an advanced price, or the reverse, is a prearranged trade and is prohibited. This rule applies both to transactions in the unit of trading and in lesser and greater amounts.

Rule 80 (a) The Exchange shall halt trading in all stocks and shall not reopen for the time periods specified in this Rule if there is a Level 1, 2, or 3 Market Decline.
(i) For purposes of this Rule, a Market Decline means a decline in price of the S&P 500® Index between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on a trading day as compared to the closing price of the S&P 500® Index for the immediately preceding trading day. The Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 Market Declines that will be applicable for the trading day will be publicly disseminated before 9:30 a.m.
(ii) A "Level 1 Market Decline" means a Market Decline of 7%.
(iii) A "Level 2 Market Decline" means a Market Decline of 13%.
(iv) A "Level 3 Market Decline" means a Market Decline of 20%.
(b) Halts in Trading.
(i) If a Level 1 Market Decline or a Level 2 Market Decline occurs after 9:30 a.m. and up to and including 3:25 p.m. or in the case of an early scheduled close, 12:25 p.m., the Exchange shall halt trading in all stocks for 15 minutes after a Level 1 or Level 2 Market Decline. The Exchange shall halt trading based on a Level 1 or Level 2 Market Decline only once per trading day. The Exchange will not halt trading if a Level 1 Market Decline or a Level 2 Market Decline occurs after 3:25 p.m., or in the case of an early scheduled close, 12:25 p.m.
(ii) If a Level 3 Market Decline occurs at any time during the trading day, the Exchange shall halt trading in all stocks until the primary listing market opens the next trading day.
(c) Re-opening of Trading
(i) The re-opening of trading following a Level 1 or 2 trading halt shall follow the procedures set forth in Rule 123D.
(ii) If the primary listing market halts trading in all stocks, the Exchange will halt trading in all stocks until trading has resumed on the primary listing market or notice has been received from the primary listing market that trading may resume. If the primary listing market does not reopen a security within 15 minutes following the end of the 15-minute halt period, the Exchange may resume trading in that security.